refactor: transform the spec yaml to an actual ERC template (#3)
fubuloubu/ERC4626: README.md

---
eip: 4626
title: Tokenized Vault Standard
description: A standard for tokenized Vaults with a single underlying ERC-20 token.
author: Joey Santoro (@joeysantoro), t11s (@transmissions11), Jet Jadeja (@JetJadeja),
    Alberto Cuesta Cañada (@alcueca), Señor Doggo (@fubuloubu)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-4626-yield-bearing-Vault-standard/7900
status: Review
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2021-12-22
---

## Abstract

The following standard allows for the implementation of a standard API for tokenized Vaults
representing shares of a single underlying [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) token.
This standard is an extension on the ERC-20 token that provides basic functionality for depositing
and withdrawing tokens and reading balances.

## Motivation

> Tokenized Vaults have a lack of standardization leading to diverse implementation details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tokenized vaults have a lack of standardization leading to diverse implementation details.
```

Some various examples include lending markets (Compound, Aave, Fuse),
aggregators (Yearn, Rari Vaults, Idle), and intrinsically interest bearing tokens (xSushi).
This makes integration difficult at the aggregator or plugin layer for protocols which need to conform to many standards.
This forces each protocol to implement their own adapters which are error prone and waste development resources.

A standard for tokenized Vaults will allow for a similar cambrian explosion to ERC-20,
unlocking access to yield and other strategies in a variety of applications
with little specialized effort from developers.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Specification

> All ERC-4626 tokenized Vaults MUST implement ERC-20 to represent shares.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All ERC-4626 tokenized vaults MUST implement ERC-20 to represent shares.
```

which represent a claim to ownership on a fraction of the Vault's underlying holdings.

All ERC-4626 MUST implement ERC-20's optional metadata extensions.
The `name` and `symbol` functions should reflect the underlying token's `name` and `symbol` in some way.
The value of `decimals` can mirror the underlying's value of `decimals`,
which may affect precision for computing the value of Vault shares

All ERC-4626 SHOULD implement ERC-165 to inform outside integrators that they indeed comply to the ERC-20,
ERC20 Optional Metadata extensions, and ERC-4626 interfaces.
This will ensure that upstream contracts do not add a Vault that does not comply to the interface,
risking loss of funds for their contracts through avoidable human error when integrating.

ERC-4626 MAY implement [EIP-712](./eip-712.md) to improve the UX of approving shares on various integrations.

### Definitions:
- asset: The underlying token managed by the Vault.
         Has units defined by the corresponding ERC20 contract.
- share: The token of the Vault. Has a ratio of underlying assets
         exchanged on mint/deposit/withdraw/redeem (defined by the Vault).

> - slippage: any difference between advertised share price and economic realities of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- slippage: Any difference between advertised share price and economic realities of
```

            deposit to or withdrawal from the Vault, which is not accounted by fees.

> - fee: an amount of assets or shares charged to the Vault. Can be a fee on deposits, yield, AUM, withdrawal, or any other kind of fee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- fee: An amount of assets or shares charged to the Vault. Can be a fee on deposits, yield, AUM, withdrawal, or any other kind of fee.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Methods

#### asset

The address of the underlying token used for the Vault uses for accounting, depositing, and withdrawing.
MUST be an ERC-20 token contract.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert

```

```yaml
- name: asset
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: assetTokenAddress
    type: address
```

#### totalAssets

Total amount of the underyling asset that is "managed" by Vault.
SHOULD include any compounding that occurs from yield.

> MUST be inclusive of any fees that are charged against assets in the Vault.

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert.

```

```yaml
- name: totalAssets
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: totalAssets
    type: uint256
```

#### assetsPerShare

The current exchange rate of shares to assets, quoted per unit share e.g. `10 ** Vault.decimals()`.

MUST be inclusive of any fees that are charged against assets in the Vault.
MAY *NOT* be completely accurate according to slippage or other on-chain conditions,

> when performing the actual exchange.

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert

```

In certain types of fee calculations, this calculation MAY *NOT* reflect the "per-user" price-per-share,
and instead should reflect the "average-user's" price-per-share,
meaning what the average user should expect to see when exchanging to and from.
The `assetsOf` method SHOULD be used for more accurate calculations of a user's underlying balance.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```yaml
- name: assetsPerShare
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: assetsPerUnitShare
    type: uint256
```

#### assetsOf

Total number of underlying assets that `depositor`'s shares represent.

MAY be more accurate than using `assetsPerShare` or `totalAssets / Vault.totalSupply`
for certain types of fee calculations.
MAY *NOT* be completely accurate according to slippage or other on-chain conditions.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert

```

```yaml
- name: assetsOf
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: depositor
    type: address

  outputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
```

#### maxDeposit

Total number of underlying assets that can be deposited.

MUST return `2 ** 256 - 1` if there is no limit on the maximum amount of assets that may be deposited.
MAY be used in the `previewDeposit` or `deposit` methods for `assets` input parameter.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert

```

```yaml
- name: maxDeposit
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: maxAssets
    type: uint256
```

#### previewDeposit

Allows an on-chain or off-chain user to simulate the effects of their deposit at the current block,
given current on-chain conditions.

MUST return the *exact* amount of Vault shares that would be obtained if depositing a given
*exact* amount of underlying assets using the `deposit` method.
MUST be inclusive of deposit fees. Integrators should be aware of the existance of deposit fees.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert

```

Note that any discrepency between `shares * assetsPerShare` and `assets` SHOULD be considered slippage
in share price or some other type of condition, meaning the depositor will lose assets by depositing.

```yaml
- name: previewDeposit
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256

  outputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256
```

#### deposit

Mints `shares` Vault shares to `receiver` by depositing exactly `amount` of underlying tokens.

MUST match exactly the quote given by `previewDeposit` executed immediately before `deposit` in the same transaction.
Any discrepency could cause a revert due to tight slippage bounds by caller.
MUST emit the `Deposit` event.
MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault contract
before the `deposit` execution, and are accounted for during `deposit`.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST revert if all of `assets` cannot be deposited

```

Note that most implementations will require pre-approval of the Vault with the Vault's underyling `asset` token.

```yaml
- name: deposit
  type: function
  stateMutability: nonpayable

  inputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
  - name: receiver
    type: address

  outputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256
```

#### maxMint

Total number of underlying shares that can be minted.

MUST return `2 ** 256 - 1` if there is no limit on the maximum amount of shares that may be minted.
MAY be used in the `previewMint` or `mint` methods for `shares` input parameter.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert

```

```yaml
- name: maxMint
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: maxShares
    type: uint256
```

#### previewMint

Allows an on-chain or off-chain user to simulate the effects of their mint at the current block,
given current on-chain conditions.

MUST return the *exact* amount of underlying assets that would be deposited in exchange for minting a given
*exact* amount of Vault shares using the `mint` method.
MUST be inclusive of deposit fees. Integrators should be aware of the existance of deposit fees.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert

```

Note that any discrepency between `assets / assetsPerShare` and `shares` SHOULD be considered slippage
in share price or some other type of condition, meaning the depositor will lose assets by minting.

```yaml
- name: previewMint
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256

  outputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
```

#### mint

Mints exactly `shares` Vault shares to `receiver` by depositing `amount` of underlying tokens.

MUST match exactly the quote given by `previewMint` executed immediately before `mint` in the same transaction.
Any discrepency could cause a revert due to tight slippage bounds by caller.
MUST emit the `Deposit` event.
MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault contract
before the `mint` execution, and are accounted for during `mint`.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST revert if all of `shares` cannot be minted.

```

Note that most implementations will require pre-approval of the Vault with the Vault's underyling `asset` token.

```yaml
- name: mint
  type: function
  stateMutability: nonpayable

  inputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256
  - name: receiver
    type: address

  outputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
```

#### maxWithdraw

Total number of underlying assets that can be withdrawn.

MUST return `2 ** 256 - 1` if there is no limit on the maximum amount of assets that may be withdrawn.
MAY be used in the `previewWithdraw` or `withdraw` methods for `assets` input parameter.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert.

```

```yaml
- name: maxWithdraw
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: maxAssets
    type: uint256
```

#### previewWithdraw

Allows an on-chain or off-chain user to simulate the effects of their withdrawal at the current block,
given current on-chain conditions.

MUST return the *exact* amount of Vault shares that would be redeemed if withdrawing a given
*exact* amount of underlying assets using the `withdraw` method.
MUST be inclusive of withdrawal fees. Integrators should be aware of the existance of withdrawal fees.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert.

```

Note that any discrepency between `shares / assetsPerShare` and `assets` SHOULD be considered slippage
in share price or some other type of condition, meaning the withdrawer will lose assets by withdrawing.

```yaml
- name: previewWithdraw
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256

  outputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256
```

#### withdraw

Redeems `shares` from `owner` and sends `assets` of underlying tokens to `receiver`.

MUST match exactly the quote given by `previewWithdraw` executed immediately before `withdraw` in the same transaction.
Any discrepency could cause a revert due to tight slippage bounds by caller.
MUST emit the `Withdraw` event.
MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault contract
before the `withdraw` execution, and are accounted for during `withdraw`.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST revert if all of `assets` cannot be withdrawn.

```

Note that some implementations will require pre-requesting to the Vault before a withdrawal may be performed.
Those methods should be performed separately.

```yaml
- name: withdraw
  type: function
  stateMutability: nonpayable

  inputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
  - name: receiver
    type: address
  - name: owner
    type: address

  outputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256
```

#### maxRedeem

Total number of underlying shares that can be redeemed.

MUST return `2 ** 256 - 1` if there is no limit on the maximum amount of shares that may be redeemed.
MAY be used in the `previewRedeem` or `redeem` methods for `shares` input parameter.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert.

```

```yaml
- name: maxRedeem
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: maxShares
    type: uint256
```

#### previewRedeem

Allows an on-chain or off-chain user to simulate the effects of their redeemption at the current block,
given current on-chain conditions.

MUST return the *exact* amount of underlying assets that would be withdrawn if redeeming a given
*exact* amount of Vault shares using the `redeem` method.
MUST be inclusive of withdrawal fees. Integrators should be aware of the existance of withdrawal fees.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST *NOT* revert.

```

Note that any discrepency between `assets * assetsPerShare` and `shares` SHOULD be considered slippage
in share price or some other type of condition, meaning the withdrawer will lose assets by redeeming.

```yaml
- name: previewRedeem
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256

  outputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
```

#### redeem

Redeems `shares` from `owner` and sends `assets` of underlying tokens to `receiver`.

MUST match exactly the quote given by `previewRedeem` executed immediately before `redeem` in the same transaction.
Any discrepency could cause a revert due to tight slippage bounds by caller.
MUST emit the `Withdraw` event.
MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault contract
before the `redeem` execution, and are accounted for during `redeem`.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
MUST revert if all of `shares` cannot be redeemed.

```

A single `assetsPerShare` method can only be guaranteed to be exact with one of the four mutable methods,
unless significant conditions are placed on the use cases that can comply with this standard.
Use cases that require to know the value of a Vault position need to know the result of a `redeem` call, without executing it.
On the other hand, integrators that intend to call `withdraw` on Vaults with the user approving only the exact amount of
underlying need the result of a `withdraw` call. Similar use cases can be found for `deposit` and `mint`.

As such, the `assetsPerShare` method has been kept for ease of integration on part of the simpler use cases,
but `preview*` methods have been included for each one of the four mutable methods.
In each case, the value of a preview method is only guaranteed to equal the return value of the relted mutable method
if called immediately before in the same transaction.

The `max*` methods are used to check for deposit/withdraw limits on vault capacity. These can be consumed off-chain for more user focused applications or on-chain for more on-chain aggregation/integration use cases.

> If implementors intend to support EOA account access directly, they should consider adding an additional function with the means to revert due to slippage loss since they are unable to revert if the output is undesirable.

Author: ```suggestion
If implementors intend to support EOA account access directly, they should consider adding an additional function with the means to accomodate slippage loss or deposit/withdrawal limits,
since their transaction will revert if the exact amount is not acheived.
```

    type: address
  - name: assets
    indexed: false
    type: uint256
  - name: shares
    indexed: false
    type: uint256
```

#### Withdraw

`sender` has exchanged `shares` for `assets`, and transferred those `assets` to `receiver`.

MUST be emitted when shares are withdrawn from the Vault in `ERC4626.redeem` or `ERC4626.withdraw` methods.

```yaml
- name: Withdraw
  type: event

  inputs:
  - name: sender
    indexed: true
    type: address
  - name: receiver
    indexed: true
    type: address
  - name: assets
    indexed: false
    type: uint256
  - name: shares
    indexed: false
    type: uint256
```

## Rationale

The Vault interface is designed to be optimized for integrators with a feature complete yet minimal interface.
Details such as accounting and allocation of deposited tokens are intentionally not specified,
as Vaults are expected to be treated as black boxes on-chain and inspected off-chain before use.

ERC-20 is enforced because implementation details like token approval
and balance calculation directly carry over to the shares accounting.
This standardization makes the Vaults immediately compatible with all ERC-20 use cases in addition to ERC-4626.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

ERC-4626 MAY implement [EIP-712](./eip-712.md) to improve the UX of approving shares on various integrations.

### Definitions:
- asset: The underlying token managed by the Vault.
         Has units defined by the corresponding ERC20 contract.
- share: The token of the Vault. Has a ratio of underlying assets
         exchanged on mint/deposit/withdraw/redeem (defined by the Vault).
- slippage: any difference between advertised share price and economic realities of
            deposit to or withdrawal from the Vault, which is not accounted by fees.
- fee: an amount of assets or shares charged to the Vault. Can be a fee on deposits, yield, AUM, withdrawal, or any other kind of fee.

### Methods

#### asset

The address of the underlying token used for the Vault uses for accounting, depositing, and withdrawing.
MUST be an ERC-20 token contract.

```yaml
- name: asset
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: assetTokenAddress
    type: address
```

#### totalAssets

Total amount of the underyling asset that is "managed" by Vault.
SHOULD include any compounding that occurs from yield.

> MUST be the value that any management fees are charged against.

Author: ```suggestion
MUST be inclusive of any fees that are charged against assets in the Vault.
```

Reviewer 2: perfect

```yaml
- name: totalAssets
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: totalAssets
    type: uint256
```

#### assetsPerShare

The current exchange rate of shares to assets, quoted per unit share e.g. `10 ** Vault.decimals()`.

> SHOULD be inclusive of any management or performance fees that are charged on the gross yield.
> SHOULD *NOT* be inclusive of any deposit or withdrawal fees.

Author: ```suggestion
MUST be inclusive of any fees that are charged against assets in the Vault.
```

and withdrawing tokens and reading balances.

## Motivation

Tokenized Vaults have a lack of standardization leading to diverse implementation details.
Some various examples include lending markets (Compound, Aave, Fuse),
aggregators (Yearn, Rari Vaults, Idle), and intrinsically interest bearing tokens (xSushi).
This makes integration difficult at the aggregator or plugin layer for protocols which need to conform to many standards.
This forces each protocol to implement their own adapters which are error prone and waste development resources.

A standard for tokenized Vaults will allow for a similar cambrian explosion to ERC-20,
unlocking access to yield and other strategies in a variety of applications
with little specialized effort from developers.

## Specification

All ERC-4626 tokenized Vaults MUST implement ERC-20 to represent shares.
If a Vault is to be non-transferrable, it MAY revert on calls to transfer or transferFrom.
The ERC-20 operations balanceOf, transfer, totalSupply, etc. operate on the Vault "shares"
which represent a claim to ownership on a fraction of the Vault's underlying holdings.

> All ERC-4626 SHOULD implement ERC-20's optional metadata extensions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All ERC-4626 MUST implement ERC-20's optional metadata extensions.
```

The `name` and `symbol` functions should reflect the underlying token's `name` and `symbol` in some way.
The value of `decimals` can mirror the underlying's value of `decimals`,
which may affect precision for computing the value of Vault shares

All ERC-4626 SHOULD implement ERC-165 to inform outside integrators that they indeed comply to the ERC-20,
ERC20 Optional Metadata extensions, and ERC-4626 interfaces.
This will ensure that upstream contracts do not add a Vault that does not comply to the interface,
risking loss of funds for their contracts through avoidable human error when integrating.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

ERC-4626 MAY implement [EIP-712](./eip-712.md) to improve the UX of approving shares on various integrations.
```

### Definitions:
- asset: The underlying token managed by the Vault.
         Has units defined by the corresponding ERC20 contract.
- share: The token of the Vault. Has a ratio of underlying assets
         exchanged on mint/deposit/withdraw/redeem (defined by the Vault).
- slippage: any difference between advertised share price and economic realities of
            deposit to or withdrawal from the Vault, which is not accounted by fees.

> - deposit fee: fee charged on deposit to Vault.
> - performance fee: fee charged on the yield generated by the Vault.
> - management fee: fee charged on deposited assets while in Vault.
> - withdrawal fee: fee charged on exit to the Vault.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- fee: an amount of assets or shares charged to the Vault. Can be a fee on deposits, yield, AUM, withdrawal, or any other kind of fee.
```

> Please note that this standard does not consider any more complex fee structures than the above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

MAY *NOT* be completely accurate according to slippage or other on-chain conditions,
when performing the actual exchange.

In certain types of fee calculations, this calculation MAY *NOT* reflect the "per-user" price-per-share,
and instead should reflect the "average-user's" price-per-share,
meaning what the average user should expect to see when exchanging to and from.
The `assetsOf` method SHOULD be used for more accurate calculations of a user's underlying balance.

```yaml
- name: assetsPerShare
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: assetsPerUnitShare
    type: uint256
```

#### assetsOf

Total number of underlying assets that `depositor`'s shares represent.

MAY be more accurate than using `assetsPerShare` or `totalAssets / Vault.totalSupply`
for certain types of fee calculations.
MAY *NOT* be completely accurate according to slippage or other on-chain conditions.

```yaml
- name: assetsOf
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: depositor
    type: address

  outputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
```

#### maxDeposit

Total number of underlying assets that can be deposited.

> MUST return `2 ** 256 - 1` to specify there is no maximum amount of assets that may be deposited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MUST return `2 ** 256 - 1` if there is no maximum amount of assets that may be deposited.
```

MAY be used in the `previewDeposit` or `deposit` methods for `assets` input parameter.

```yaml
- name: maxDeposit
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: maxAssets
    type: uint256
```

#### previewDeposit

Allows an on-chain or off-chain user to simulate the effects of their deposit at the current block,
given current on-chain conditions.

MUST return the *exact* amount of Vault shares that would be obtained if depositing a given
*exact* amount of underlying assets using the `deposit` method.
MUST be inclusive of deposit fees. Integrators should be aware of the existance of deposit fees.

> Note that any discrepency between `shares * pricePerShare` and `assets` SHOULD be considered slippage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that any discrepency between `shares * assetsPerShare` and `assets` SHOULD be considered slippage
```

in share price or some other type of condition, meaning the depositor will lose assets by depositing.

```yaml
- name: previewDeposit
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256

  outputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256
```

#### deposit

Mints `shares` Vault shares to `receiver` by depositing exactly `amount` of underlying tokens.

MUST match exactly the quote given by `previewDeposit` executed immediately before `deposit` in the same transaction.
Any discrepency could cause a revert due to tight slippage bounds by caller.
MUST emit the `Deposit` event.
MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault contract
before the `deposit` execution, and are accounted for during `deposit`.

> SHOULD add a means to revert due to slippage loss if the implementation intends to support EOA account access directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Can we change this to more of a general note and keep it? Agree with not `SHOULD`

Reviewer 2: Can I see what you had in mind?

Author: ```suggestion

If implementors intend to support EOA account access directly, they should consider adding an additional function with the means to revert due to slippage loss since they are unable to revert if the output is undesired.
```

Note that most implementations will require pre-approval of the Vault with the Vault's underyling `asset` token.

```yaml
- name: deposit
  type: function
  stateMutability: nonpayable

  inputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
  - name: receiver
    type: address

  outputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256
```

#### maxMint

Total number of underlying shares that can be minted.

> MUST return `2 ** 256 - 1` to specify there is no maximum amount of shares that may be minted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MUST return `2 ** 256 - 1` if there is no maximum amount of shares that may be minted.
```

MAY be used in the `previewMint` or `mint` methods for `shares` input parameter.

```yaml
- name: maxMint
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: maxShares
    type: uint256
```

#### previewMint

Allows an on-chain or off-chain user to simulate the effects of their mint at the current block,
given current on-chain conditions.

MUST return the *exact* amount of underlying assets that would be deposited in exchange for minting a given
*exact* amount of Vault shares using the `mint` method.
MUST be inclusive of deposit fees. Integrators should be aware of the existance of deposit fees.

> Note that any discrepency between `assets / pricePerShare` and `shares` SHOULD be considered slippage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that any discrepency between `assets / assetsPerShare` and `shares` SHOULD be considered slippage
```

in share price or some other type of condition, meaning the depositor will lose assets by minting.

```yaml
- name: previewMint
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256

  outputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
```

#### mint

Mints exactly `shares` Vault shares to `receiver` by depositing `amount` of underlying tokens.

MUST match exactly the quote given by `previewMint` executed immediately before `mint` in the same transaction.
Any discrepency could cause a revert due to tight slippage bounds by caller.
MUST emit the `Deposit` event.
MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault contract
before the `mint` execution, and are accounted for during `mint`.

> SHOULD add a means to revert due to slippage loss if the implementation intends to support EOA account access directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Note that most implementations will require pre-approval of the Vault with the Vault's underyling `asset` token.

```yaml
- name: mint
  type: function
  stateMutability: nonpayable

  inputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256
  - name: receiver
    type: address

  outputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
```

#### maxWithdraw

Total number of underlying assets that can be withdrawn.

> MUST return `2 ** 256 - 1` to specify there is no maximum amount of assets that may be withdrawn.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MUST return `2 ** 256 - 1` if there is no maximum amount of assets that may be withdrawn.
```

MAY be used in the `previewWithdraw` or `withdraw` methods for `assets` input parameter.

```yaml
- name: maxWithdraw
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: maxAssets
    type: uint256
```

#### previewWithdraw

Allows an on-chain or off-chain user to simulate the effects of their withdrawal at the current block,
given current on-chain conditions.

MUST return the *exact* amount of Vault shares that would be redeemed if withdrawing a given
*exact* amount of underlying assets using the `withdraw` method.
MUST be inclusive of withdrawal fees. Integrators should be aware of the existance of withdrawal fees.

> Note that any discrepency between `shares / pricePerShare` and `assets` SHOULD be considered slippage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that any discrepency between `shares / assetsPerShare` and `assets` SHOULD be considered slippage
```

in share price or some other type of condition, meaning the withdrawer will lose assets by withdrawing.

```yaml
- name: previewWithdraw
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256

  outputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256
```

#### withdraw

Redeems `shares` from `owner` and sends `assets` of underlying tokens to `receiver`.

MUST match exactly the quote given by `previewWithdraw` executed immediately before `withdraw` in the same transaction.
Any discrepency could cause a revert due to tight slippage bounds by caller.
MUST emit the `Withdraw` event.
MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault contract
before the `withdraw` execution, and are accounted for during `withdraw`.

> SHOULD add a means to revert due to slippage loss if the implementation intends to support EOA account access directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Note that some implementations will require pre-requesting to the Vault before a withdrawal may be performed.
Those methods should be performed separately.

```yaml
- name: withdraw
  type: function
  stateMutability: nonpayable

  inputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
  - name: receiver
    type: address
  - name: owner
    type: address

  outputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256
```

#### maxRedeem

Total number of underlying shares that can be redeemed.

> MUST return `2 ** 256 - 1` to specify there is no maximum amount of shares that may be redeemed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MUST return `2 ** 256 - 1` if there is no maximum amount of shares that may be redeemed.
```

MAY be used in the `previewRedeem` or `redeem` methods for `shares` input parameter.

```yaml
- name: maxRedeem
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs: []

  outputs:
  - name: maxShares
    type: uint256
```

#### previewRedeem

Allows an on-chain or off-chain user to simulate the effects of their redeemption at the current block,
given current on-chain conditions.

MUST return the *exact* amount of underlying assets that would be withdrawn if redeeming a given
*exact* amount of Vault shares using the `redeem` method.
MUST be inclusive of withdrawal fees. Integrators should be aware of the existance of withdrawal fees.

> Note that any discrepency between `assets * pricePerShare` and `shares` SHOULD be considered slippage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that any discrepency between `assets * assetsPerShare` and `shares` SHOULD be considered slippage
```

in share price or some other type of condition, meaning the withdrawer will lose assets by redeeming.

```yaml
- name: previewRedeem
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256

  outputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
```

#### redeem

Redeems `shares` from `owner` and sends `assets` of underlying tokens to `receiver`.

MUST match exactly the quote given by `previewRedeem` executed immediately before `redeem` in the same transaction.
Any discrepency could cause a revert due to tight slippage bounds by caller.
MUST emit the `Withdraw` event.
MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault contract
before the `redeem` execution, and are accounted for during `redeem`.

> SHOULD add a means to revert due to slippage loss if the implementation intends to support EOA account access directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    type: address
  - name: assets
    indexed: false
    type: uint256
  - name: shares
    indexed: false
    type: uint256
```

#### Withdraw

`sender` has exchanged `shares` for `assets`, and transferred those `assets` to `receiver`.

MUST be emitted when shares are withdrawn from the Vault in `ERC4626.redeem` or `ERC4626.withdraw` methods.

```yaml
- name: Withdraw
  type: event

  inputs:
  - name: sender
    indexed: true
    type: address
  - name: receiver
    indexed: true
    type: address
  - name: assets
    indexed: false
    type: uint256
  - name: shares
    indexed: false
    type: uint256
```

## Rationale

The Vault interface is designed to be optimized for integrators with a feature complete yet minimal interface.
Details such as accounting and allocation of deposited tokens are intentionally not specified,
as Vaults are expected to be treated as black boxes on-chain and inspected off-chain before use.

ERC-20 is enforced because implementation details like token approval
and balance calculation directly carry over to the shares accounting.
This standardization makes the Vaults immediately compatible with all ERC-20 use cases in addition to ERC-4626.

> The Vaults are opinionated on a default deposit/withdraw flow because it gives integrators a default pattern to implement.
> Special use cases can be overloaded on these methods by including additional logic such as requesting withdrawals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

a user would optimize for a specific number of shares (mint) rather than specific amount of underlying (deposit).
However, it is easy to imagine future Vault strategies which would have unique and independently useful share representations.

A single `assetsPerShare` method can only be guaranteed to be exact with one of the four mutable methods,
unless significant conditions are placed on the use cases that can comply with this standard.
Use cases that require to know the value of a Vault position need to know the result of a `redeem` call, without executing it.
On the other hand, integrators that intend to call `withdraw` on Vaults with the user approving only the exact amount of
underlying need the result of a `withdraw` call. Similar use cases can be found for `deposit` and `mint`.

As such, the `assetsPerShare` method has been kept for ease of integration on part of the simpler use cases,
but `preview*` methods have been included for each one of the four mutable methods.
In each case, the value of a preview method is only guaranteed to equal the return value of the relted mutable method
if called immediately before in the same transaction.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The `max*` methods are used to check for deposit/withdraw limits on vault capacity. These can be consumed off-chain for more user focused applications or on-chain for more on-chain aggregation/integration use cases.
```

given current on-chain conditions.

MUST return the *exact* amount of Vault shares that would be obtained if depositing a given
*exact* amount of underlying assets using the `deposit` method.
MUST be inclusive of deposit fees. Integrators should be aware of the existance of deposit fees.
MUST *NOT* revert.

Note that any discrepency between `shares * assetsPerShare` and `assets` SHOULD be considered slippage
in share price or some other type of condition, meaning the depositor will lose assets by depositing.

```yaml
- name: previewDeposit
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256

  outputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256
```

#### deposit

Mints `shares` Vault shares to `receiver` by depositing exactly `amount` of underlying tokens.

MUST match exactly the quote given by `previewDeposit` executed immediately before `deposit` in the same transaction.
Any discrepency could cause a revert due to tight slippage bounds by caller.
MUST emit the `Deposit` event.
MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault contract
before the `deposit` execution, and are accounted for during `deposit`.

> MUST revert if all of `assets` cannot be deposited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MUST revert if not all `assets` are transferred from the user into the Vault (either due to maxes being breached or not enough tokens being approved to the Vault contract.
```

given current on-chain conditions.

MUST return the *exact* amount of underlying assets that would be deposited in exchange for minting a given
*exact* amount of Vault shares using the `mint` method.
MUST be inclusive of deposit fees. Integrators should be aware of the existance of deposit fees.
MUST *NOT* revert.

Note that any discrepency between `assets / assetsPerShare` and `shares` SHOULD be considered slippage
in share price or some other type of condition, meaning the depositor will lose assets by minting.

```yaml
- name: previewMint
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256

  outputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
```

#### mint

Mints exactly `shares` Vault shares to `receiver` by depositing `amount` of underlying tokens.

MUST match exactly the quote given by `previewMint` executed immediately before `mint` in the same transaction.
Any discrepency could cause a revert due to tight slippage bounds by caller.
MUST emit the `Deposit` event.
MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault contract
before the `mint` execution, and are accounted for during `mint`.

> MUST revert if all of `shares` cannot be minted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MUST revert if all of `shares` cannot be minted (either due to maxes being breached or the user not approving enough underlying tokens to the Vault contract).
```

given current on-chain conditions.

MUST return the *exact* amount of Vault shares that would be redeemed if withdrawing a given
*exact* amount of underlying assets using the `withdraw` method.
MUST be inclusive of withdrawal fees. Integrators should be aware of the existance of withdrawal fees.
MUST *NOT* revert.

Note that any discrepency between `shares / assetsPerShare` and `assets` SHOULD be considered slippage
in share price or some other type of condition, meaning the withdrawer will lose assets by withdrawing.

```yaml
- name: previewWithdraw
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256

  outputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256
```

#### withdraw

Redeems `shares` from `owner` and sends `assets` of underlying tokens to `receiver`.

MUST match exactly the quote given by `previewWithdraw` executed immediately before `withdraw` in the same transaction.
Any discrepency could cause a revert due to tight slippage bounds by caller.
MUST emit the `Withdraw` event.
MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault contract
before the `withdraw` execution, and are accounted for during `withdraw`.

> MUST revert if all of `assets` cannot be withdrawn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MUST revert if all of `assets` cannot be withdrawn (either due to maxes being breached or the user not having enough shares).
```

given current on-chain conditions.

MUST return the *exact* amount of underlying assets that would be withdrawn if redeeming a given
*exact* amount of Vault shares using the `redeem` method.
MUST be inclusive of withdrawal fees. Integrators should be aware of the existance of withdrawal fees.
MUST *NOT* revert.

Note that any discrepency between `assets * assetsPerShare` and `shares` SHOULD be considered slippage
in share price or some other type of condition, meaning the withdrawer will lose assets by redeeming.

```yaml
- name: previewRedeem
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
  - name: shares
    type: uint256

  outputs:
  - name: assets
    type: uint256
```

#### redeem

Redeems `shares` from `owner` and sends `assets` of underlying tokens to `receiver`.

MUST match exactly the quote given by `previewRedeem` executed immediately before `redeem` in the same transaction.
Any discrepency could cause a revert due to tight slippage bounds by caller.
MUST emit the `Withdraw` event.
MAY support an additional flow in which the underlying tokens are owned by the Vault contract
before the `redeem` execution, and are accounted for during `redeem`.

> MUST revert if all of `shares` cannot be redeemed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MUST revert if all of `shares` cannot be redeemed  (either due to maxes being breached or the user not having enough shares).
```
